# IT610FinalProject
## Rocket Chat Containerization Demo
For my IT 610 final project, I have created a docker-compose.yml file that deployed Rocket Chat in a Windows 10 device. Rocket Chat is a communication platform similar to Skype or Discord. However, what makes it distinct from those more popular platforms, is that it is a customizable platform that could be implemented towards any ecosystem that a user may be setting up. It also promotes strong privacy in which it is E2E encrypted, ISO 27001 certified, and supports compliance with GDPR, CCPA, LGPD, and HIPAA.

The docker-compose file contains two services: `rocketchat` and `mongodb`. 

`rocketchat` uses the rocket.chat image provided by the developers. In the service, some important elements are configured within the yml file. There is the `labels` element which provides metadata to the rocket.chat container. These labels use Traefik, a cloud native application proxy that helps configure the Rocket Chat API properly. This proxy is compatible with rocketchat in which the labels have already been implemented by the developers for you to use. There is the `environment` element which is used to define the MongoDB environment variables that rocket.chat will use to establish a connection with the `mongodb` service. That is why `rocketchat` has the `depends_on` element sent to `mongodb`

`mongodb` uses the Mongodb image provided in Docker Hub. One of the major element that is setup in the service is the `environment` element. Many environment variables are setup in this element, with some of the important one including **MONGODB_REPLICA_SET_MODE, MONGODB_REPLICA_SET_NAME, MONGODB_INITIAL_PRIMARY_HOST**, etc. The replica variables are used to set up a replica set in the MongoDB container, which maintains the same data set as the primary set. This is done to provide redundancy and high availability to our rocket.chat server. 

After you have downloaded the docker-compose.yml into the directory of your choice, go to your terminal and make sure that you are in the directory where the file is located. If Docker is already installed and opened in your computer, then you simply type the command: `docker compose up`. The rocket.chat server will be starting in the background. You can then go to your home browser and type in `localhost:3000` in the search bar. Press enter and you should be able to access the Rocket Chat platform. Follow the steps to create an admin account and you will have access to the entire platform. If you want to learn more about the User Panel features, check out the official Rocket Chat User Guide here: https://docs.rocket.chat/use-rocket.chat/user-guides 
